Sharing Source Trees
====================

This document explains how to make two (or more) computers share a single
source tree.

Sharing source trees is useful for situations where you are editing code,
and you want to run the modified code simultaneously on two different
computers. One inelegant solution would be to check out a copy of the
source tree on both computers, make changes on one computer, check in the
changes, and update the source tree on the other computer. This works, but
it is time-consuming, error-prone, and an abuse of source control. It would
be much better if we could check out the source tree once, on one computer,
and have both computers use that single source tree. To accomplish this,
follow these instructions:

First choose one computer to be the 'host' of the source tree. Check out
the tree just as you normally would. Next, tell Windows to share the source
tree folder, or a parent folder of the source tree folder. I recommend
sharing your user directory. (e.g. C:\cygwin\usr\darren) Browse to the
folder in the Windows explorer. Right-click the folder, and choose
'Sharing...'. Select 'Share this folder'. Give the shared folder a simple
share name. (I call mine 'darren', the same as the folder name)

On the remote computer, map a drive to point to the shared folder on the
host computer. I recommend using Z: (If you would like to use a
different drive, replace 'z' in the following commands.) In cygwin, on the
remote computer:

> net use z: "\\hostname\sharename" /persistent:yes

where 'hostname' is the network name of the host computer, and 'sharename'
is the name of your shared folder.

Next, set up cygwin to access the new drive through a '/z' directory:

> mkdir /z
> mount -s -b z:/ /z

Now we need to modify the view settings on the remote computer. Open up the
vspec file for the tree, in /usr/local/etc. For the $TOONTOWN tree, you
would open /usr/local/etc/toontown.vspec. Locate the line that has your
settings. It should start with your Windows username. For instance, mine
looks like this:

dcranall:croot:path=/usr/darren/player/toontown:server=,pserver,darren@dimbo,/fit/cvs

Make a copy of your line. Add '_remote' to the username ('dcranall' becomes
'dcranall_remote') and change the 'path' to point to the tree on the Z:
drive. For example, my new line becomes:

dcranall_remote:croot:path=/z/player/toontown:server=,pserver,darren@dimbo,/fit/cvs

Now, to attach to the shared tree on the remote computer, do

> cta toontown dcranall_remote

Of course, replace 'toontown' with the name of the tree you're connecting
to, and change 'dcranall_remote' to contain your username.

Congratulations, you are now attached to a remote tree!
